# Entry 1
##### 11/3/25

# Content 
The freedom project tool that I am doing for this year is kaboom, Which uses javascript to help people create games that are fun with effects and I have been learning about its features and code, processing things in my learning log trying to create a game where it is fun and interactive, where it is like a battle royale game where you obtain a health bar in the beginning and after an enemy dies there will be a explosion, using kaboom to help me with the effect. The objective is to bascially just be the last one standing. I intended to make a game that can be played offline because nowadays there aren't much games that are offline and fun, most of the fun games today are mostly online and need wifi. Im trying to create a game for people who maybe dont have access to data or wifi always, where it is fun and interactive. It has been a little hard to find videos and websites to help with my learning but these are the videos that I have processed into my learning log that has helped me. I used the [kaboom website](https://kaboomjs.com/doc/setup) and found a [kaboom animation video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n-q0pKGhxyw) I took all the learning from here and tried to create something similar in [pickcode](https://app.pickcode.io/project/cmg5b8cve009okj2ewj08abpy), I tested out different things here and tinkered with code. For example there was code inside the pickcode that was programmed to move a specific sprite using arrow keys I in turn wondered what if I could change the arrow keys to a random key on a keyboard such as w,a,s, and d. I moved the one that said left arrow to a and when I clicked a it moved my sprite. These were just some of the ways that I used my imagination to tinker with my code and change things that I was curious in. 

# Engineering Design Process 
Right now on the engineering design process I just finished defining the problem which is trying to develop this offline game where people who enjoy it and not play the game once and just get bored of it, trying to add like some cool effects to it so that it looks more intresting and cool, while I finished defining the problem I moved onto the researching of the problem, trying to find ways online, like features that will make my game stand out, adding things in my game that makes online games intresting and interactive. I have been reading a [article](https://www.pluralsight.com/resources/blog/software-development/character-controls-camera-3cs-game-development#:~:text=What%20are%20the%20first%20things,Character%2C%20Controls%2C%20Camera'.) on game developement to help me create this.  
[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)
